README.md, before:

# PsyshBundle

[![Package version](http://img.shields.io/packagist/v/theofidry/psysh.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/theofidry/psysh-bundle)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/theofidry/PsyshBundle.svg?branch=master&style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/theofidry/PsyshBundle?branch=master)
[![SensioLabsInsight](https://img.shields.io/sensiolabs/i/0dd96e9b-18b9-47f8-8ae0-762afb740110.svg?style=flat-square)](https://insight.sensiolabs.com/projects/0dd96e9b-18b9-47f8-8ae0-762afb740110)
[![Dependency Status](https://www.versioneye.com/user/projects/55802dee386664002000013a/badge.svg?style=flat)](https://www.versioneye.com/user/projects/55802dee386664002000013a)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/theofidry/PsyshBundle.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/theofidry/PsyshBundle/?branch=master)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-red.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

A bundle to use the php REPL [PsySH][1] with [Symfony][2]. Learn more at [psysh.org][1] and check out the [Interactive Debugging in PHP talk from OSCON](https://presentate.com/bobthecow/talks/php-for-pirates) on Presentate.

What does it do exactly?
* Loads [PsySH][1] with the application dependencies
* Gives access to the following variables:

| Variable              | Description                          |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------|
| `$container`          | Instance of Symfony ServiceContainer |
| `$kernel`             | Instance of Symfony Kernel           |
| `$parameters`         | Instance of Symfony parameters       |

Aside from that it's the plain old [PsySH][1]! You can also [customize it](src/Resources/doc/custom.md) to add your own variables.


## Documentation

1. [Install](#install)
1. [Usage](#usage)
1. [PsySH as a debugger](doc/debugger.md)
1. [Reflect like a boss](doc/reflect.md)
1. [PsySH for breakpoints](doc/breakpoint.md)
1. [Customize PsySH](#customize-psysh)


## Install

You can use [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) to install the bundle to your project:

```bash
composer require --dev theofidry/psysh-bundle
```

Then, enable the bundle by updating your `app/AppKernel.php` file to enable the bundle:
```php
<?php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    //...

    if (in_array($this->getEnvironment(), ['dev', 'test'])) {
        //...
        $bundles[] = new Fidry\PsyshBundle\PsyshBundle();
    }

    return $bundles;
}
```

## Usage

```bash
php app/console psysh
```

or

```php
// Somewhere in your Symfony app

psysh()
```

![PsySH Shell](doc/images/shell.png)

[Go further](#documentation).


## Customize PsySH

# Customize PsySH

You may also want to add a custom command or change the parameters. To achieve that, simply override the
`psysh.shell` service declaration:

```yaml
# app/config/config_dev.yml

services:
    psysh.shell:
        class: Psy\Shell
        calls:
            - method: setScopeVariables
              arguments:
                -
                    container: '@service_container'
                    session: '@session'
```

Now if you run `php app/console psysh` and then `ls`, you will see the variables `$container` and `$session`:

```
>>> ls
Variables: $container, $session
```

The default configuration is the following:

```yaml
# app/config/config_dev.yml

services:
    psysh.shell:
        class: Psy\Shell
        calls:
            - method: setScopeVariables
              arguments:
                -
                    kernel: '@kernel'
                    container: '@service_container'
                    parameters: '@=service("service_container").getParameterBag().all()'
```

**Note: PsyshBundle is by default registered to the Kernel only in dev/test environment and so are the bundle package.
If you override the service declaration, ensure that it will not occur in production. You can declare your service
in `app/config/config_dev.yml` for example or create a new `app/config/services_dev.yml` that will be imported only in dev.**


## Credits

This bundle is developed by [Théo FIDRY](https://github.com/theofidry). This project has been made possible thanks to:

* [Justin Hileman](https://github.com/bobthecow): author of [PsySH][1] and [all the contributors of the PsySH project](https://github.com/bobthecow/psysh/graphs/contributors)
* [Adrian Palmer](https://github.com/navitronic): gave the lead for porting [PsySH][1] on [Symfony][2]


[1]: http://psysh.org/
[2]: http://symfony.com/

Commit message:

Put psysh function in a namespace (#27)

README.md, after:

# PsyshBundle

[![Package version](http://img.shields.io/packagist/v/theofidry/psysh.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/theofidry/psysh-bundle)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/theofidry/PsyshBundle.svg?branch=master&style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/theofidry/PsyshBundle?branch=master)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/theofidry/PsyshBundle.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/theofidry/PsyshBundle/?branch=master)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-red.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

A bundle to use the php REPL [PsySH][1] with [Symfony][2]. Learn more at [psysh.org][1] and check out the [Interactive Debugging in PHP talk from OSCON](https://presentate.com/bobthecow/talks/php-for-pirates) on Presentate.

What does it do exactly?
* Loads [PsySH][1] with the application dependencies
* Gives access to the following variables:

| Variable              | Description                          |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------|
| `$container`          | Instance of Symfony ServiceContainer |
| `$kernel`             | Instance of Symfony Kernel           |
| `$parameters`         | Instance of Symfony parameters       |

Aside from that it's the plain old [PsySH][1]! You can also [customize it](src/Resources/doc/custom.md) to add your own variables.


## Documentation

1. [Install](#install)
1. [Usage](#usage)
    1. [PsySH as a debugger](doc/debugger.md)
    1. [Reflect like a boss](doc/reflect.md)
    1. [PsySH for breakpoints](doc/breakpoint.md)
1. [Customize PsySH](#customize-psysh)
1. [Credits](#credits)


## Install

You can use [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) to install the bundle to your project:

```bash
composer require --dev theofidry/psysh-bundle
```

Then, enable the bundle by updating your `app/AppKernel.php` file to enable the bundle:
```php
<?php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    //...

    if (in_array($this->getEnvironment(), ['dev', 'test'])) {
        //...
        $bundles[] = new Fidry\PsyshBundle\PsyshBundle();
    }

    return $bundles;
}
```

## Usage

```bash
php app/console psysh
```

or

```php
use function Fidry\PsyshBundle\psysh

class X
{
    function foo()
    {
        psysh(get_defined_vars(), $this);   // Debug with the current context
    }
}
```

![PsySH Shell](doc/images/shell.png)

[Go further](#documentation).


## Customize PsySH


You may also want to add a custom command or change the parameters. To achieve that, simply override the
`psysh.shell` service declaration:

```yaml
# app/config/config_dev.yml

services:
    psysh.shell:
        class: Psy\Shell
        calls:
            - method: setScopeVariables
              arguments:
                -
                    container: '@service_container'
                    session: '@session'
```

Now if you run `php app/console psysh` and then `ls`, you will see the variables `$container` and `$session`:

```
>>> ls
Variables: $container, $session
```

The default configuration is the following:

```yaml
# app/config/config_dev.yml

services:
    psysh.shell:
        class: Psy\Shell
        calls:
            - method: setScopeVariables
              arguments:
                -
                    kernel: '@kernel'
                    container: '@service_container'
                    parameters: '@=service("service_container").getParameterBag().all()'
```

**Note: PsyshBundle is by default registered to the Kernel only in dev/test environment and so are the bundle package.
If you override the service declaration, ensure that it will not occur in production. You can declare your service
in `app/config/config_dev.yml` for example or create a new `app/config/services_dev.yml` that will be imported only in dev.**


## Credits

This bundle is developed by [Théo FIDRY](https://github.com/theofidry). This project has been made possible thanks to:

* [Justin Hileman](https://github.com/bobthecow): author of [PsySH][1] and [all the contributors of the PsySH project](https://github.com/bobthecow/psysh/graphs/contributors)
* [Adrian Palmer](https://github.com/navitronic): gave the lead for porting [PsySH][1] on [Symfony][2]


[1]: http://psysh.org/
[2]: http://symfony.com/
